README.md, before:

# Poker (TypeScript)
Poker-ts is a poker game engine that can be used to serve Texas hold'em games for real players.

## Acknowledgment
This library is a TypeScript port of the [C++ Poker library](https://github.com/JankoDedic/poker) written by Janko Dedic. Note that minor differences in the API might exist.

## Example Usage
Poker-ts exports a `Poker.Table` class that represents a state machine and models a real-world poker table. 

Short example below:
```js
const Poker = require('poker-ts');

table = new Poker.Table({ smallBlind: 50, bigBlind: 100 })

table.sitDown(0, 1000); // seat a player at seat 0 with 1000 chips buy-in
table.sitDown(2, 1500); // seat a player at seat 2 with 1500 chips buy-in
table.sitDown(5, 1700); // seat a player at seat 5 with 1700 chips buy-in

table.startHand();

while (table.isHandInProgress()) {
  while (table.isBettingRoundInProgress()) {
    const seatIndex = table.playerToAct();
    
    // Get `action` and possibly `betSize` in some way
    const [action, betSize] = getPlayerActionSomehow(seatIndex);
    
    table.actionTaken(action, betSize);
  }
  
  table.endBettingRound()
  
  if (table.areBettingRoundsCompleted()) {
    table.showdown()
  }
}

// 🎉 🎉 🎉 Congrats to the `table.winners()` 🎉 🎉 🎉 
```
## API
### Custom types and enums used in documentation below
```ts
type Card = {
    rank: '2' | '3' | '4' | '5' | '6' | '7' | '8' | '9' | 'T' | 'J' | 'Q' | 'K' | 'A'
    suit: 'clubs' | 'diamonds' | 'hearts' | 'spades'
}

type AutomaticAction = 'fold' | 'check/fold' | 'check' | 'call' | 'call any' | 'all-in'

type Action = 'fold' | 'check' | 'call' | 'bet' | 'raise'

type ChipRange = {
    min: number
    max: number
}

type SeatIndex = number

enum HandRanking {
    HIGH_CARD,
    PAIR,
    TWO_PAIR,
    THREE_OF_A_KIND,
    STRAIGHT,
    FLUSH,
    FULL_HOUSE,
    FOUR_OF_A_KIND,
    STRAIGHT_FLUSH,
    ROYAL_FLUSH,
}
```
### Constructor 
`Poker.Table(forcedBets: { ante?: number, bigBlind: number, smallBlind: number }, numSeats?: number)`

Creates an instance of the poker table object.

### playerToAct()
`Poker.Table.prototype.playerToAct(): number`

Returns the seat index of the player to act. (Betting round must be in progress.)

### button()
`Poker.Table.prototype.button(): number`

Returns the seat index of the button. (Hand must be in progress.)

### seats()
`Poker.Table.prototype.seats(): ({ totalChips: number, stack: number, betSize: number } | null)[]`

Returns the state of the players seated at the table.

### handPlayers()
`Poker.Table.prototype.handPlayers(): ({ totalChips: number, stack: number, betSize: number } | null)[]`

Returns the state of the players currently in the hand. (Hand must be in progress.)

### numActivePlayers()
`Poker.Table.prototype.numActivePlayers(): number`

Returns the number of active players in the active hand. (Hand must be in progress.)

### pots()
`Poker.Table.prototype.pots(): { size: number, eligiblePlayers: number[] }[]`

Returns the state of all pots in the active hand.

### forcedBets()
`Poker.Table.prototype.forcedBets(): { ante: number, bigBlind: number, smallBlind: number }`

Returns the current bet structure at the table.

### setForcedBets(forcedBets)
`Poker.Table.prototype.setForcedBets(forcedBets: { ante?: number, bigBlind: number, smallBlind: number }): void`

Modifies the bet structure of the table. (Hand must not be in progress.)

### numSeats()
`Poker.Table.prototype.numSeats(): number`

Returns the number of seats at the table.

### startHand(seat?: number)
`Poker.Table.prototype.startHand(seat?: number)): void`

Start a new hand by collecting ante, placing blinds and dealing cards. (Hand must not be in progress and there must be at least two players seated at the table.) 

Optionally set dealer button seat. If seat is invalid, button will be placed at first hand player.

### isHandInProgress()
`Poker.Table.prototype.isHandInProgress(): boolean`

Returns `true` if hand is in progress.

### isBettingRoundInProgress()
`Poker.Table.prototype.isBettingRoundInProgress(): boolean`

Returns `true` if betting round is in progress. (Hand must be in progress.)

### areBettingRoundsCompleted()
`Poker.Table.prototype.areBettingRoundsCompleted(): boolean`

Returns `true` if all betting rounds are completed. (Hand must be in progress.)

### roundOfBetting()
`Poker.Table.prototype.roundOfBetting(): 'preflop' | 'flop' | 'turn' | 'river'`

Returns the current round of betting. (Hand must be in progress)

### communityCards()
`Poker.Table.prototype.communityCards(): : Card[]`

Returns the community cards for the active hand. (Hand must be in progress.)

### legalActions()
`Poker.Table.prototype.legalActions(): { actions: Action[], chipRange?: ChipRange }`

Returns legal actions for the player to act. (Betting round must be in progress.)

### holeCards()
`Poker.Table.prototype.holeCards(): (Card[] | null)[]`

Returns the hole cards for the active hand. (Hand must be in progress or showdown must have ended.)

### actionTaken(action, betSize)
`Poker.Table.prototype.actionTaken(action: Action, betSize?: number)`

Indicate that the player to act has taken an action. (Betting round must be in progress)

### endBettingRound()
`Poker.Table.prototype.endBettingRound(): void`

End the current betting round which is no longer in progress. Collect the bets and form the pots. (Betting round must not be in progress and betting rounds must not be completed.)

### showdown()
`Poker.Table.prototype.showdown(): void`

Perform a showdown. Evaluate the players' hands and pay the winners. (Betting round must not be in progress and betting rounds must be completed.)

### winners()
`Poker.Table.prototype.winners(): [SeatIndex, { cards: Card[], ranking: HandRanking, strength: number }, Card[]][][]`

Returns the winning hands for each pot after showdown. (Hand must not be in progress.)

### automaticActions()
`Poker.Table.prototype.automaticActions(): (AutomaticAction | null)[]`

Returns the toggled automatic actions at the table. (Hand must be in progress)

### canSetAutomaticActions(seatIndex)
`Poker.Table.prototype.canSetAutomaticActions(seatIndex: number): boolean`

Returns `true` if the player with a given `seatIndex` can set an automatic action. (Betting round must be in progress.)

### legalAutomaticActions(seatIndex)
`Poker.Table.prototype.legalAutomaticActions(seatIndex: number): AutomaticAction[]`

Returns an array of legal automatic actions for a player with a given `seatIndex`. (Player must be allowed to set automatic actions.)

### setAutomaticAction(seatIndex, action)
`Poker.Table.prototype.setAutomaticAction(seatIndex: number, action: AutomaticAction | null): void`

Set the automatic action for a given player. (Player must be allowed to set automatic actions and player must not be the player to act.)

### sitDown(seatIndex, buyIn)
`Poker.Table.prototype.sitDown(seatIndex: number, buyIn: number): void`

Indicate that a player took a given seat with a given buy-in. (Given seat must not be occupied.)

### standUp(seatIndex)
`Poker.Table.prototype.standUp(seatIndex: number): void`

Indicate that a player has left the table. (Given seat must be occupied.)

## License
[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Update documentation including clarifications related to #12 and info about sponsoring

README.md, after:

# Poker (TypeScript)
Poker-ts is a poker game engine that can be used to serve Texas hold'em games for real players.

## Acknowledgment
This library is a TypeScript port of the [C++ Poker library](https://github.com/JankoDedic/poker) written by Janko Dedic. Note that minor differences in the API might exist.

## Become a Sponsor
Consider [making a small donation via Github](https://github.com/sponsors/claudijo?o=esb) if you find my work with this library valuable.


## Example Usage
Poker-ts exports a `Poker.Table` class that represents a state machine and models a real-world poker table. 

Short example below:
```js
const Poker = require('poker-ts');

table = new Poker.Table({ smallBlind: 50, bigBlind: 100 })

table.sitDown(0, 1000); // seat a player at seat 0 with 1000 chips buy-in
table.sitDown(2, 1500); // seat a player at seat 2 with 1500 chips buy-in
table.sitDown(5, 1700); // seat a player at seat 5 with 1700 chips buy-in

table.startHand();

while (table.isHandInProgress()) {
  while (table.isBettingRoundInProgress()) {
    const seatIndex = table.playerToAct();
    
    // Get `action` and possibly `betSize` in some way
    const [action, betSize] = getPlayerActionSomehow(seatIndex);
    
    table.actionTaken(action, betSize);
  }
  
  table.endBettingRound()
  
  if (table.areBettingRoundsCompleted()) {
    table.showdown()
  }
}

// 🎉 🎉 🎉 Congrats to the `table.winners()` 🎉 🎉 🎉 
```
## API
### Custom types and enums used in documentation below
```ts
type Card = {
    rank: '2' | '3' | '4' | '5' | '6' | '7' | '8' | '9' | 'T' | 'J' | 'Q' | 'K' | 'A'
    suit: 'clubs' | 'diamonds' | 'hearts' | 'spades'
}

type AutomaticAction = 'fold' | 'check/fold' | 'check' | 'call' | 'call any' | 'all-in'

type Action = 'fold' | 'check' | 'call' | 'bet' | 'raise'

type ChipRange = {
    min: number
    max: number
}

type SeatIndex = number

enum HandRanking {
    HIGH_CARD,
    PAIR,
    TWO_PAIR,
    THREE_OF_A_KIND,
    STRAIGHT,
    FLUSH,
    FULL_HOUSE,
    FOUR_OF_A_KIND,
    STRAIGHT_FLUSH,
    ROYAL_FLUSH,
}
```
### Constructor 
`Poker.Table(forcedBets: { ante?: number, bigBlind: number, smallBlind: number }, numSeats?: number)`

Creates an instance of the poker table object. The ante (a forced bet in which all players put an equal amount of money or chips into the pot before the deal begins) and specifying the dealer button seat are optional.

### playerToAct()
`Poker.Table.prototype.playerToAct(): number`

Returns the seat index of the player to act. (Betting round must be in progress.)

### button()
`Poker.Table.prototype.button(): number`

Returns the seat index of the dealer button. (Hand must be in progress.)

### seats()
`Poker.Table.prototype.seats(): ({ totalChips: number, stack: number, betSize: number } | null)[]`

Returns the state of the players seated at the table.

### handPlayers()
`Poker.Table.prototype.handPlayers(): ({ totalChips: number, stack: number, betSize: number } | null)[]`

Returns the state of the players currently in the hand. (Hand must be in progress.)

### numActivePlayers()
`Poker.Table.prototype.numActivePlayers(): number`

Returns the number of active players in the active hand. (Hand must be in progress.)

### pots()
`Poker.Table.prototype.pots(): { size: number, eligiblePlayers: number[] }[]`

Returns the state of all pots in the active hand. 

This endpoint can be used prior to calling `showdown()` to check if all but one last eligible player has folded. A single eligible player will win the pot, even though the `winnders()` endpoints returns an empty array under that circumstance.  

### forcedBets()
`Poker.Table.prototype.forcedBets(): { ante: number, bigBlind: number, smallBlind: number }`

Returns the current bet structure at the table.

### setForcedBets(forcedBets)
`Poker.Table.prototype.setForcedBets(forcedBets: { ante?: number, bigBlind: number, smallBlind: number }): void`

Modifies the bet structure of the table. (Hand must not be in progress.)

### numSeats()
`Poker.Table.prototype.numSeats(): number`

Returns the number of seats at the table.

### startHand(seat?: number)
`Poker.Table.prototype.startHand(seat?: number)): void`

Start a new hand by collecting ante, placing blinds and dealing cards. (Hand must not be in progress and there must be at least two players seated at the table.) 

Optionally set dealer button seat. If seat is invalid, button will be placed at the first hand player.

### isHandInProgress()
`Poker.Table.prototype.isHandInProgress(): boolean`

Returns `true` if hand is in progress.

### isBettingRoundInProgress()
`Poker.Table.prototype.isBettingRoundInProgress(): boolean`

Returns `true` if betting round is in progress. (Hand must be in progress.)

### areBettingRoundsCompleted()
`Poker.Table.prototype.areBettingRoundsCompleted(): boolean`

Returns `true` if all betting rounds are completed. (Hand must be in progress.)

### roundOfBetting()
`Poker.Table.prototype.roundOfBetting(): 'preflop' | 'flop' | 'turn' | 'river'`

Returns the current round of betting. (Hand must be in progress)

### communityCards()
`Poker.Table.prototype.communityCards(): : Card[]`

Returns the community cards for the active hand. (Hand must be in progress.)

### legalActions()
`Poker.Table.prototype.legalActions(): { actions: Action[], chipRange?: ChipRange }`

Returns legal actions for the player to act. (Betting round must be in progress.)

### holeCards()
`Poker.Table.prototype.holeCards(): (Card[] | null)[]`

Returns the hole cards for the active hand. (Hand must be in progress or showdown must have ended.)

### actionTaken(action, betSize)
`Poker.Table.prototype.actionTaken(action: Action, betSize?: number)`

Indicate that the player to act has taken an action. (Betting round must be in progress)

### endBettingRound()
`Poker.Table.prototype.endBettingRound(): void`

End the current betting round which is no longer in progress. Collect the bets and form the pots. (Betting round must not be in progress and betting rounds must not be completed.)

### showdown()
`Poker.Table.prototype.showdown(): void`

Perform a showdown. Evaluate the players' hands and pay the winners. (Betting round must not be in progress and betting rounds must be completed.)

### winners()
`Poker.Table.prototype.winners(): [SeatIndex, { cards: Card[], ranking: HandRanking, strength: number }, Card[]][][]`

Returns the winner(s) for each pot after showdown. (Hand must not be in progress.)

For each pot, an array entry will contain the seat index of the winner, the winner's hand, including the five winning cards, hand ranking and strength, and the two hole cards of the winner.

Note that the result will be empty if there is one pot with one single eligible player left in the hand. Access the `pots()` before calling `showdown()` to explicitly get the winner if there is only one eligible player left.

### automaticActions()
`Poker.Table.prototype.automaticActions(): (AutomaticAction | null)[]`

Returns the toggled automatic actions at the table. (Hand must be in progress)

### canSetAutomaticActions(seatIndex)
`Poker.Table.prototype.canSetAutomaticActions(seatIndex: number): boolean`

Returns `true` if the player with a given `seatIndex` can set an automatic action. (Betting round must be in progress.)

### legalAutomaticActions(seatIndex)
`Poker.Table.prototype.legalAutomaticActions(seatIndex: number): AutomaticAction[]`

Returns an array of legal automatic actions for a player with a given `seatIndex`. (Player must be allowed to set automatic actions.)

### setAutomaticAction(seatIndex, action)
`Poker.Table.prototype.setAutomaticAction(seatIndex: number, action: AutomaticAction | null): void`

Set the automatic action for a given player. (Player must be allowed to set automatic actions and player must not be the player to act.)

### sitDown(seatIndex, buyIn)
`Poker.Table.prototype.sitDown(seatIndex: number, buyIn: number): void`

Indicate that a player took a given seat with a given buy-in. (Given seat must not be occupied.)

### standUp(seatIndex)
`Poker.Table.prototype.standUp(seatIndex: number): void`

Indicate that a player has left the table. (Given seat must be occupied.)

## License
[MIT](LICENSE)
